---
layout: post
title:  "Driving Innovation and Productivity with Microsoft Copilot"
date:   2025-06-28 22:31:55 +0100
categories: Copilot, Artificial Intelligence
---

The elephant in the room, Artificial Intelligence (AI) is disrupting and taking some jobs, but other opportunities are arising. Everything changes very often in Information Technology (IT) so, once again, we need to embrace these changes and adapt to grow with it.

The purpose of Copilot is to make us more productive at work. We can see it as an assistant that uses Large Language Models (LLMs) to give insights from data. This assistant will automate repetitive tasks integrating seamlessly with Microsoft 365 applications. For example, summarize meeting transcripts from Microsoft Teams, and create presentations, documents, emails in a consistent manner.

State statitics on how many companies are adopting copilot for all their employees worldwide. What companies or industries are lagging behind?
I'm not getting into how to adopt Copilot, more info on the Microsoft site. What is the link to Copilot adoption playbook in Microsoft 365?

I want to share some examples of activities that I can automate for some of my key work tasks:

## Automate data analysis
Analyze contextual and historical data from files, emails and draw insights so we can focus on the decision-making.
Analyze data in real time to do business forecast and planning, for example to implement Just in Time production. Add example of Mini cooper based on constructions on highways and weather to enable delivery of parts on time.
What are the advantages and drawbacks?

## Automate problem-solving
Analyze past successful strategies to idenfy suggestions for current problems.
What are the advantages and drawbacks?

## Automate brainstorming
Create content suggestions and variations - so we can focus on going beyond
Drawback:It does not create out of the box ideas, it is based on what has been created before
What are the advantages and drawbacks?

## Automate workflows
Ability to connect agents from external applications with Microsoft copilot to extend copilot capabilities beyond the Microsoft 365 ecosystem connect with other applications, such as Confluence, Salesforce, etc. 
if we want to augment with additional sources of data, we need connectors with Copilot
What are the advantages and drawbacks?

## Automate monitoring impact of solutions
Track savings and efficiency gains to assess ROI.
How can Copilot optimize the Copilot adoption playbook?
What are the advantages and drawbacks?

## Automate user feedback
How can copilot automate user feedback from a process improvement recommendation (for instance to automate customer service)?
What are the advantages and drawbacks?

What are examples of lean six sigma techniques I can automate with Copilkot? What are advantes and drawbacks?

# Responsible use of AI
Microsoft follows AI principles: fairness, privacy and reliability, and it respects data governance policies.
Data protection through encyption and access controls, compliance with regulatory requirements.
What if the output is wrong? We need a human to review the output as a source of decision-mkaing process, not to output the decision.
Add a simple overview of responsible AI and links for reference.

# Configure control over data
Data is protected across 365 applications
Set up labels and classifications to define how the data is used
Add a simple overview of data protection in Copilot and links for reference.

